# Typed stack algebra

In EvmScript, EVM code is generated by stitching together pieces of code with typed stack signatures, called `Fragment`s. We call stitching multiple Fragments together `compose()`ing, which succeeds only if the Fragments have compatible signatures. Trying to compose Framents with incompatible type signatures leads to a type error.

A fragment is a piece of code with a predetermined effect on the stack. Each fragment has a `signature` that looks like

{% code expandable="true" %}
```typescript
gas: () → 0|Word
add: (Uint, Uint) → 2|Uint
rotate: (Addr, Uint, Word) → 3|Word, Addr, Uint
```
{% endcode %}

and a `code` which is a sequence of bytecodes. For instance, the signature of `add` says that add requires two `Uints` on top of the stack, it consumes both and pushes a new `Uint` (which is the result of the addition). Another example, `rotate` changes the order of the top 3 items on the stack:

* The part `(Addr, Uint, Word)` is called the `expect`, which specifies the requirements on the stack (the rightmost position being the top of the stack)
* the part `3|` is called the `pop`, which specifies how many items on from the top are popped
* The part `Word, Addr, Uint` is called the `ensure` which specifies the freshly pushed values

#### Types

The following types are available by default

<table><thead><tr><th width="90.62890625">Name</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>Word</code></td><td>The top type. Cannot be operated on without a cast.</td></tr><tr><td><code>Uint</code></td><td>Unbranded integer type</td></tr><tr><td><code>Locn</code></td><td>Branded <code>Uint</code> which can be used as calldata and memory locations</td></tr><tr><td><code>Size</code></td><td>Branded <code>Uint</code> which can be used as calldata and memory sizes</td></tr><tr><td><code>Addr</code></td><td>An Ethereum address</td></tr><tr><td><code>Data</code></td><td>Non numeric EVM word. Can be written to storage, memory.</td></tr></tbody></table>

